---
layout: post
title: Sep 12 &colon; Sewing Up Loose ends
---

Another busy day saw several things get _finished_. It was pretty satisfying.

Mr Scheidecker and Mr Hawkins each gave an argument for Conjecture D.

> **Theorem:** (Hawkins, Scheidecker) Let AB be a line, and X a point lying on that
> line. Suppose that B and D are points so that angles BXA and BXC are right angles.
> Then the points B, D, and X are collinear.

Then we talked through the statements of Definition 10, and Propositions I.12-15
quickly. If you find Euclid confusing at times, try to restate the proposition in
your own words, using plain English. Also, keep in mind that Euclid often restates
propositions with better notation as a first step to giving a proof.

Miss Herington took up Conjecture E.

> **Theorem:** (Herington) The interior angles of a parallelogram taken together
> make four right angles.

> **Corollary:** The interior angles of a rhombus taken together make four right
> angles.

It is worth noting that these things complete our work on the tasks in part 1.
Congratulations to everyone.

Next, Mr Fisher settled Conjecture F.

> **Theorem:** (Fisher) If ABCD is a kite with AB congruent to AD and BC congruent to
> DC. If segment CD is greater than segment AD, then angle BAD is greater than angle
> BCD.


When class ended, we still had some unresolved items on the board: Stuffelbeam and
Hatchett-Westervelt wish to discuss 2.3, and Opheim has been waiting patiently to
get his work for 2.4 out. We will do those Monday.

Item 2.2 is still open, and we have yet to start stuff on part 3.
