---
layout: post
title: Day 12&colon; Toes in the pool
---

We started some discussions today that I expect will take us a while to completely
resolve. This is not to reflect on the work we have seen done! Rather, I know
that the "waters are deep" here.

We began with Miss Herington. She gave a proof of 3.7, assuming that 3.6 is true.

> **Theorem:** (Herington) Assume that Conjecture 3.6 is a theorem. Let ABCD be
> a quadrilateral. Let x, y, w, z be the midpoints of the sides
> of ABCD in order. As long as x, y, w, and z are not collinear, they are the vertices
> of a parallelogram.

During Miss Herington's presentation, she pointed out three different types of
quadrilaterals, and I gave names to these "ideas" for shapes. We'll have to sort
out definitions later. The new words were: convex, simple.

Then Mr Scheidecker took up Question H.

> **Definition:** (Scheidecker) Let C and D be points not lying on line AB. We say
> that C and D lie on opposite sides of line AB when the segment CD meets line AB.
> We say that C and D lie on the same side of line AB when the segment CD does not
> meet AB.

We had a little conversation, and I talked a bit about the structure of the axiomatic
method. The important terms were _undefined term_, _axiom_ or _postulate_, and _model_.

Also, this came up:

> **Question L:** How does Scheidecker's definition for H interact with Nieman's
> construction for 2.2? In particular, what statement is needed (if any) to
> close the gap? Make a conjecture! Or explain why everything is fine.

Then Mr Scheidecker gave a proposal for Question I. We will have to talk about this
some more.

> **Scheidecker's proposed defn for I:**
> Given a quadrilateral ABCD with line segments AB, BC, AD, CD, with D on the
> same side of line B as A and C. Then AD and CD
> (1) form a convexity if D is on the opposite side of AC as B;
> (2) do not form a convexity if D is on the same side of AC as B.

We will start our discussion there next time.
