---
layout: post
title: Week Five Wrapup

---

This week we returned to a regular schedule of three meetings. Also, we had our
first individual assessment meetings. I appreciate that each of you took time
to meet with me outside of the regular class schedule.

### Monday 21 September

Mr Sorensen took another crack at 3.1. This was a more focused effort, aiming
at exactly the statement of Conjecture 3.1 and no more. It did not quite satisfy the class.

Mr Matthes proved that Conjecture 3.3 is a theorem if Conjecture 3.1 is a theorem.

Mr Rundall renewed his attempt at Conjecture 1.2/Conjecture E. The class is
still not convinced.

Mr Ratz proved Conjecture 3.5.

### Wednesday 23 September

Mr Sorensen proved that Conjecture 3.1 is true. Note that this means we know
Conjectures 3.2 and 3.3 are true, too. This is one of the joys of the axiomatic method---we can work in several directions at once, and sometimes one simple argument will close up multiple things at once.

Mr Matthes tried Conjecture 3.6 in two different ways. Each one ultimately having the problem of an "overweighted construction." This is a common difficulty, and now you all know how to look for it.

Miss Wulfekuhle proved Conjecture 3.6.

Miss Kirkpatrick shared a list of six different things, any one of which would enable her to finish Conjecture 3.4. Discussion ensued.

### Friday 25 September

Miss Kirkpatrick proved the following theorem, which shows that Conjecture 3.4 is false:

> **Theorem (Kirkpatrick)**: It is possible to construct a quadrilateral ABCD
> such that angle ABC and angle ADC are right angles and segment AD is
> congruent to segment BC, but the quadrilateral ABCD is not a rectangle.

Mrs Day proved the following theorem near Conjecture 3.4:

> **Theorem (Day)**: Let ABCD be a quadrilateral such that angle ABC and
> angle ADC are right angles and AB is congruent to CD. Then ABCD is a rectangle if and only if AB is parallel to CD.

Mr Matthes proved Conjecture 3.7.

Then Mr Spiess took up Task 4.1. This is going to be a longer discussion, but
we ran out of time. We will pick up there on Monday.