---
layout: post
title: Polygons?

---

We made a good start on the items in parts 4 and 5 of our task sequence. In
particular, we started a conversation about pentagons that will need some
thinking.

Mr Ratz took up Task 4.2. The discussion that followed narrowed the trouble
with Euclid's I.7 down to this: Euclid assumes some relative positions for
the points C and D and only writes a proof in this one case. Essentially,
his proof is dependent on the diagram he drew. Our job now is
to find the complete list of cases and see that they are all handled.

Miss Kirkpatrick handled task 5.1 by noting that the definition of
_exterior angle_ given has a choice in it, but a simple argument says the
different possible outcomes are congruent.

Mr Cowden gave an argument for task 5.2 which involved dividing up a
pentagon into three triangles and then counting things carefully. This
started a larger conversation: "What counts as a pentagon?"

We took some time to brainstorm, and came up with 10 different example
pentagons which were somehow fundamentally different. All of the examples
seem to fit the given definition of a polygon, but you were not equally
happy with them all. This leaves us with these tasks.

> **Task J**: Clean up the definition of _polygon_ to exclude those we
> dislike and include those we want.

Be careful here. I am completely happy to let you rewrite a definition, but
whatever we decide upon we will have to use!

> **Task K**: Mr Cowden's argument for 5.2 will work easily for some types
> of polygons, but less easily (not at all?) for others. Figure out how to
> describe which pentagons will work here and make a definition.
