---
layout: post
title: Many Questions
---

We had a consequential meeting today. Big, important questions came up.

Mr Spiess started out with a new discussion of 4.1. This needs more effort.

Mr Ratz had a new discussion of 4.2. This also needs more effort. Mrs Day has an
excellent question that needs to be addressed: "How can you say for sure when you
are in a particular case which angle in Euclid's argument needs to be the whole
and which needs to be the part?" I think a through handling of the possible cases
will answer that.

Then Mr Cowden proposed a definition of the word _convex_ in an attempt to satisfy
Task K. His proposal:

> A polygon is called _convex_ when each of its interior angles is less than two
> right angles.

The first point that needs to be made is that Mr Cowden (and the rest of you) should
look for a way to connect this definition to the argument he proposed for Conjecture 5.1.
That would allow us to write a solid theorem.

The conversation that followed yielded many new questions:

> **Task L**: Come up with a good definition of the word _interior angle_ for
> polygons.

Mr Rundall immediately shared an idea that the exterior angle at a vertex should
have at least one ray from that vertex that does not hit any side of the polygon.

Mr Cowden then put up an example of a hexagon that makes this a challenge to use.
I like it when good examples have names. Let's call this new one the _Cowden Befuddler_.

> **Task M**: Come up with a definition for _the point X lies inside the polygon P_.

We had a very short discussion about our feelings about this last Task, and then
class ended.
