---
layout: post
title: New Words!
---

We made a lot of progress today--we got a few theorems, made some new definitions,
and set up a large open-ended challenge.

---

Mr Schulte completed Problem 6.6 by using "measurements" of the angles of ABCDE
(relative to a right angle). He proved Miss Rehnstrom's observations are correct:

* line EC is an angle bisector of angle BCD, and
* angle ACD is twice angle CAD.

Mr Maggert started a new discussion about 4.2. At some point in the discussion,
it became clear that we needed to know more about the phrase "opposite side."
(Thanks to Mr Stuhr for asking it so clearly.) We thought about it, and then with
some leadership by Mr Baker and Mr Gebel, we got this definition on the board:

> **Definition**: Let L be a line and P and Q be points not lying on L. If segment
> PQ intersects L, then we say that P and Q are on opposite sides of L. If segment
> PQ does not intersect L, then we say that P and Q are on the same side of L.

I then asked you all to try to apply this new understanding the the concept of a
convex polygon, by coming up with a definition of convex using the above language.
We did a bit of a merry-go-round discussion. Then Mr Stuhr and Miss King did a bit of
the leadership bits and we eventually got this definition on the board:

> **Definition**: We say that a polygon X is convex when for each side s and each
> pair of vertices v, w of X which do not lie on S, v and w lie on the same side
> of the extension of s to a line.

That is a mouthful, but it works. Then I set this big, open-ended challenge.

> **Challenge P**: Find, state carefully, and prove conjectures about these new terms
>     * same/opposite side of a line
>     * convex
> focus on things that seems obvious or important.

How should this set of ideas help us with 4.2 or J?

----

Midterm in class next meeting. Don't study. It is a chance for me to check a few things,
but it does not go in the grade book.

----

Open Problems List:  4.2, 5.3, 6.7, I, J1, J2, J3, L, O, P.

I just posted task list part 7!
