---
layout: post
title: More Convexity Challenges
---

Mr Baker started our discussions today by addressing a point he felt he left out
of last presentation: Construction of a parallel line. He gives a construction using
a cleverly placed equilateral triangle, but the proof requires knowing the _converse_ to
a theorem of Miss Van Nevele about medians and altitudes of isosceles triangles.
We don't have that theorem, yet. But we really should... (Hint. Hint.)

Miss Manternach then completed 7.1.

Miss Freking then constructed a counterexample to 7.3. This shows us that Angle-Side-Side
is not a triangle congruence theorem, generally.

Miss Hegewald then took up 5.3.

> **Conjecture:** (Hegewald) The exterior angles of a convex n-gon taken together make
> four right angles.

Of course, convexity is a required condition here. We have strange examples!
It is not clear from her attempt at a proof where exactly convexity gets used. Specifically,
how does (one of) our definitions of convexity play in as a technical condition
in a way that allows the argument to be made?

Miss Jacobs floated the idea of attacking Question J by redefining the word "diagonal."
The class did not go along with this at this time.

Mr Maggert took up 4.2. The advance this time is to note that 4.2 is strongly connected to the
statement "Two circles meet in at most two points." In fact, I would say that 4.2 is
exactly a technical way of restating that claim. I encouraged Mr Maggert to dig into
his original troubles with Euclid I.7 and try to patch it, rather than re-creating the
wheel.

----

Message about Conferences coming soon!
