---
layout: post
title: Tough Day
---

February 27 was our 18th meeting. We had a lot of conversation, but not a lot of
finished results.

I got a bit testy. You all have to be more careful about "groupthink." I know you all
have been together in other classes, but you can't let your familiarity with each
other stand in the way of getting the mathematics correct. Everyone was sloppy about
this. Presenters and audience.

I know we are working on challenging ideas, and it won't always be clear how to proceed.
But that means you ask _a greater number of questions_, not fewer. Proof by picture
doesn't cut it. It builds shaky foundations with cracks. Sooner or later, you get something
incorrect out of it. This has already happened this term!

More skepticism please.

-----

Miss Jacobs presented on Conjecture J. In the end, her claims are these:

Claim 1: It is possible to construct a non-convex kite.

Claim 2: If a kite is not convex, then its diagonals do not cross.

Claim 3: If a kite is convex, then its diagonals cross.


Any one of those would make a fine theorem if it had a complete proof. In fact, I am
adding these to the class list as J1-J3.

Miss Jacobs took a stab at Claim 2 on the spot. She outlined this:

  * In a non-convex kite one diagonal is inside and one is outside.
  * If one segment is inside and the other is outside, then they cannot cross.

That seems a reasonable appraoch. Now it just needs to be "axiomatized."

Miss Rehnstrom presented on 6.6. She noted that in a regular pentagon ABCDE,
line EC seems to be the angle bisector of angle ACD. If we could prove that, this would
prove her observation from last time.

Mr Maggert started presenting on 4.2. He noted the unfounded assumption that angle ACD is less than angle
BCD is taken only from the figure. This certainly makes the proof incomplete. What
other figures are possible?
