---
layout: post
title: Lots of little things
---

We began today with work by Mr Cowden on Conjecture 5.3. He restricts to the case
of convex figures, and proves this theorem:

> **Theorem (Cowden)**: The exterior angles of a convex polygon taken together
> are four right angles.

Miss Kirkpatrick noted that Mr Cowden used this fact implicitly.

> **Theorem:** If P is a convex \\(n\\)-gon, then it is possible to decompose
> P into \\( n-2 \\) non-overlapping triangles using diagonals of P.

Mr Cowden thought on his feet and came up with an argument for this, completing
his proof. (He got a little push from Mr Ratz.)

Note that non-convex figures have not been addressed at all. This is an open problem.
We also had this:

> Conjecture N (Kirkpatrick): A convex polygon is a simple polygon.

Miss Wulfekuhle constructed a counterexample to Conjecture 6.4.

Miss Kirkpatrick settled Conjecture 6.6 by finding good descriptions of the
relevant angles in a regular pentagon (in terms of a right angle) and then
relating them.

> **Theorem (Kirkpatrick)**: Let ABCDE be a regular pentagon. Then angle CAD is half
> angle ACD.

Then Mr Rundall took up the challenge to improve his definition of "interior point"
for a polygon to satisfy Miss Kirkpatrick's challenge. There was much discussion, and
time expired before things were settled.

#### Where are we?

I have posted part 7 of the task sequence. Many of you have been quiet lately,
here is a chance to get a presentation in. I will be looking for you first on Friday.

I believe the list of open problems looks like this:

  * 1.2 (now really E)
  * 2.2
  * 4.1, 4.2 (almost!), 4.3
  * 5.2 \amp; 5.3 in the non-convex cases
  * 6.7
  * L, M, N
