---
layout: post
title: Moving on to kites

---

We had a successful day. I am really please with how well things are going. You
are making it fun for me to come to work each day.

Today's meeting started with Miss Wulfekuhle tackling Conjecture D. (Which I just
realized never made it on to the official class conjecture page. I will fix that
in a minute.) This went smoothly, and we agreed on this theorem.

> **Theorem (Wulfekuhle)**: Let XYZ be a given angle and AB a given segment. Then
> is possible to construct a rhombus ABCD such that angle BAC is congruent to
> angle XYZ using Mr Cowden's method.

Then Mr Sorensen gave a presentation about joint work with Mr Rundall. The argument
was moving along okay, but we found that it had a pretty serious problem. The
first step was basically to assume the conclusion. (This kind of thing can sneak
up on you!) Several interesting things happened here.

1. When first pressed, Mr Sorensen started thinking aloud "Well, what if they
did not cross?" This is the beginnings of a proof by contradiction, where you
would assume the conclusion you seek is false and instead try to deduce that
something impossible happens. Miss Wulfekuhle shared an example of a funny shape
that we decided to call the _Wulfekuhle Starship_. You all talked about it as if
you believed that it was an impossible thing.

2. Miss Davis mentioned an idea about possibly using Postulate V as a _constructive_
helper, since it helps you find a new point.

3. I talked about how "half a proof is no proof, but progress is progress." And
I challenged Mr Sorensen to find what in his work can be packaged as new and
interesting, even if he hadn't, yet, met his original goal. After some thought,
he stated this:

> **Theorem (Rundall-Sorensen)**: Let ABCD be a rhombus. Assume that the diagonals
> AC and BD meet at a point E. Then the triangles ABE, CBE, CDE, and ADE are all
> mutually congruent.

Finally, Mr Cowden started a presentation on Conjecture(s) C-ish. Time was very
short, though, so nothing of substance happened before class ended. We will pick
up with this next time.

Oh, and I posted the second part of the task list, on kites.
