---
layout: post
title: Oh, No!

---

It was fun to see seven volunteers on the board when I arrived. I like that.

We had some consequential presentations today. They didn't all end in theorems, but we learned some interesting stuff from them all the same.

Miss Barbaresso presented on Question G.

Miss Rehnstrom presented on Question I. We took a long look at a GeoGebra
construction of a kite, and moved it around a bunch. During this presentation
We had a few important things show up. First, we found a type of kite which
folds *in*. We will call this a Rehnstrom kite from now on. Miss Manternach
noted that this looked like it could produce a counterexample to Mr Henry's
Theorem 2.2. Miss Freking pushed back against the use of pictures as
argument, and we discussed the similarity to earlier presentations:
**A mathematician answers questions by stating and proving theorems.**
Out of all of the work, we found this:

> **Question J:** Revisit Theorem 2.2 with Rehnstrom's kite in view, and see
> what is different about the argument from rhombus to kite. Can we make a
> counterexample to 2.2? Where is the subtlety here?

Mr Gebel took up 3.1.

> **Theorem 3.1:** (Gebel) Let R be a rectangle. Then R is a parallelogram.

Miss Van Nevele took up 3.2.

> **Theorem 3.2:** (Van Nevele) Let R be a rectangle. Then each pair of
> opposite sides of R is a pair of congruent segments.

Then Miss Jacobs totally stole a problem from Mr Baker. It was wickedly
cruel.

> **Theorem 3.5:** (Baker?-Jacobs) Let ABCD be a quadrilateral such that
> angles ABC and ADC are right angles. If AB and CD are parallel, then ABCD
> is a rectangle.

----

Open Problems List: F, G, I, J, 3.3, 3.4, 3.6, 3.7
