---
layout: post
title: Constructions Begin
---

We had several attempts at constructions in class today. Only one really got completed.

Remember: a construction challenge asks you to find a valid method to make some type of
figure using only the fixable compass and a straightedge, and also to provide a proof
that your recipe works.

As a group, we still seem to be struggling with two things:

  - constructing arguments where each step is supported by some previously agreed upon
    work, like a postulate, a proposition from Euclid, or a theorem proved by the class.
  - critiquing arguments written by others for deficiencies.

These are two sides of the same coin. I hope that you will all try to focus on them
for the next few weeks.

Also, the camaraderie of the class is nice, but I would like a slightly more independent spirit.
I care much less about the class getting any particular piece of mathematics done than I do
about _each individual student_ experiencing the process of struggling and succeeding, and ultimately
owning their successes completely.

----

Miss Rehnstrom presented a four-step construction for 11.1. She has yet to give her proof that
it works.

Miss Bulic presented on 11.2, and was soon joined by Miss King. Eventually, they had a construction with
three steps.
They have yet to present a proof that the construction works.

Mr Gebel gave a construction that didn't quite work, and then later a clear four step construction for 11.3.
The proof is not yet complete, though Miss Brandenburg's suggestion of "kite" will
probably be helpful.

Mr Stuhr gave a four step construction for 11.4 and a proof that it works.

Miss Jacobs was waiting to give a presentation at the end of the hour, too.
I hope we will see all of these things completed in our next meeting, and more.
