---
layout: post
title: Four Theorems and a Conjecture

---

Lots of progress to report for today, with several results moving us forward in our understanding of kites and rhombi.

Miss Jacobs presented on Conjecture D. This was a bit longer argument than most we have seen so far, and after discovering the joy that is Euclid I.32, we got a proof of this:

> **Theorem:** (Jacobs) If ABCD is a kite but not a rhombus, then ABCD is not
> a parallelogram.

Then Mr Stuhr gave a pretty general looking construction of a kite.

> **Theorem:** (Stuhr) It is possible to construct a kite with compass and
> straightedge.


The next thing would be to study the flexibility or rigidity of this
construction.
During class I said I would not make that into a formal conjecture but I
would be happy to see work in this direction. Now I think it is just better
to give it full status.

> **Question I:** How flexible or rigid is Mr Stuhr's construction? Find some
> theorems and prove them.

Then Miss Hegewald took up 2.1.

> **Theorem:** (Hegewald) If a kite is not a rhombus, then one pair of its opposite
> angles is not a pair of congruent angles.

Miss Van Nevele handled Conjecture H with a quick application of I.26. (Mr SChulte had the same.)

> **Theorem:** (Van Nevele) If ABC is an isosceles triangle with AB congruent
> to AC, and D is the foot of the perpedicular line to BC through A, then D >
> is the midpoint of BC.

Finally, Miss Rehnstrom took up Question G. She does not have a proof, but she believes this:

Conjecture (Rehnstrom): Consider Miss Brandenburg's construction of a
rhombus. If B, C, and C' are collinear, then rhombus ABCD and rhombus D'C'BA are congruent.

----

Open problems list: 1.2 (coming soon!), 2.2, 2.4, E, F, G, I.