---
layout: post
title: The Midline Theorem
---

We spent almost all of our time on the midline theorem today, and at the end, we
still aren't sure about it. (This is one of the more challenging items for the
semester.)

Miss Ancona tried to handle a special case, and with an extra assumption or two,
she can do it.

Miss Goedken tried the general case. The argument is long and tricky, and we
got lost a little in the details. The class is not, yet, convinced, but I think
the approach has a chance to work. As often happens in geometry, the difficulty
lies in trying to be careful about what properties we know about our figure
because we constructed it that way and which properties we have to deduce logically.
This gets tricky because a lot of the time, the picture tells us
that all of those properties are "equally and obviously true."

Miss Bavido stole the last three minutes to share this definition for item K:

  > Definition: [Bavido] Let A, B, and C be three collinear points. Then B
  lies between A and C when the segments AB and BC taken together are congruent
  to AC.

Miss Ancona asked a very perceptive question: What does it mean to "put two segments"
together?

Now that is a different rabbit hole to fall down. I was really giddy over this,
but most of you seemed to have a "oh, not _again_" look.

### New Stuff

I have posted the next section of the task sequence. It is really short.

And because the "adding segments" question came up, I will post a bit of the
supplemental tasks that develop basic trigonometry from scratch. You know, for fun.
