---
layout: post
title: Simple polygons
---

Miss Shere started a conversation over the nature of polygons. In particular,
she pointed out that a "bowtie" shaped quadrilateral leads to a degenerate situation
in Varignon's theorem. Miss Shere proposed throwing this type of example out of
the class of polygon, so as to preserve Varignon's theorem.

This led to a deep conversation. At the end, we decided that we would use a new
word to "classify" polygons of this type or others. The generally accepted term
for this phenomenon is "simple." Miss Shere will write the definition, and it
will include (1) vertices are distinct, and (2) if two sides meet, they do so
at a vertex which is an endpoint of each.

I view this work as essentially solving Challenge S.

Then Mr Conger presented an update to H, but really it is M.

> Definition: Let ABCD be a kite such that AB is congruent to AD and CB is congruent
to CD. If A and C lie on the same side of the diagonal BD, then kite ABCD is a
non-convex kite.

Miss Van Ryswyk asked "what happens if A is the midpoint of BD?" This leads
back to basic questions of what the word "polygon" should mean. Miss Bavido and
Miss Shere proposed alterations. After discussion, we chose Miss Shere's version:

> A polygon must require that two adjacent sides cannot be collinear.

Miss Worsfold presented a definition of non-convex in response to Question P.

> Definition: A polygon P is non-convex when there exists a line l such that
1. l does not contain a side of P, and 2. l meets P at more than two points.
