---
layout: post
title: Week Four Roundup

---

What happened in Week Four? Well, I was not exactly myself, but we tried to get
back to a regular class. In the end, we met only on Monday and Friday of this
week.

### Monday 14 September

We took 25 minutes to work in pairs.

Mr Rundall tried an approach to Conjecture 1.2 that starts by _constructing_ a
rombus and its diagonals all at once. But it is not clear how to finish this:
at the crucial point, the axiomatic justification is missing.

Mr Spiess took on a weakened version of Conjecture 2.5, adding the hypothesis
that the diagonals lie inside the figure.

Mr Cowden then did an alternate version of Conjecture 2.5, adding the
hypothesis that the diagonals meet outside the figure. This has a small problem
in that he failed to explicitly check all of the criteria for using Postulate V
are met before using it.

Mr Ratz proved that if a quadrilateral is a kite but not a rhombus, then it
cannot be a parallelogram.

### Friday 18 September

Mrs Day completed Conjecture C''.

Mr Sorensen took on Conjecture 3.1, but did not finish successfully. Along the way, he made this stronger conjecture:

> **Conjecture I (Sorensen)**: A parallelogram is a rectangle if and only if
> its diagonals are congruent.

Ms Wulfekuhle proved that if Conjecture 3.1 is a theorem, then so is Conjecture 3.2.

Mr Cowden took up Conjecture 2.5 again and proved this:

> Theorem (Cowden): Let ABCD be a kite with AB congruent to AD and BC
> congruent to BD. If the diagonal AC is produced indefinitely, then it will
> meet diagonal BD at a right angle.


